Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look at
how we can secure our root account to AWS.
So we'll start with covering off what is IAM?
IAM just stands for Identity Access Management.
Next, we'll go on to understanding what IAM is
and then we'll look at what the root account is.
Then we'll look at how we can actually
secure the root account using the console.
And then we'll review everything
that we've learned in this lesson.
So what is IAM?
Well, like I said, IAM stands for
Identity Access Management
and essentially it allows you to manage users
and their level of access to the AWS console
and allows you to go ahead and create users
and grant permissions to those users.
You can also create groups and roles
which we'll cover off in a little bit.
And you basically use IAM to control access
to your AWS resources.
So that's all that IAM is.
It's a way of granting access to AWS resources,
and really understanding IAM is essential
both for passing the exam
but also for working with AWS in real life.
If you're administrating a company's
AWS account in real life,
you need to have an intimate understanding of IAM
and IAM all starts with the root account.
So what is the root account?
Well, this is just the email address
you use to sign up for AWS.
So the root account
has full administrative access to AWS
and for this reason it's really important
to secure this account
because if somebody gets your password to this account
and knows the email address,
they can go in and mine as much Bitcoin as they want.
They can literally use any service
within the AWS console.
For that very reason,
it's super important to secure your root account.
So let's go ahead and have a look
at how we can do that in the AWS console.
Okay, so here I am signed into the AWS console
and if we look up here, we can see our different regions.
Now for the rest of this course,
I'd suggest you use us-east-1
or the Northern Virginia region.
And the reason for that is that this is the
basically the primary region where Amazon
rolls out all its new services first.
So this was one of the very first regions within AWS.
This is also the region that goes down the most
because it has the most usage,
but I would recommend doing the rest of this course
in Northern Virginia because if there's any new services
and you're doing it, let's say, outside of Canada Central
or I don't know, Europe, Paris,
they might not have some of those services
rolled out to that region just yet.
Us-east-1 always has the newest services
rolled out to it by default.
So we wanna have a look at Identity Access Management.
If we click up into Services, you'll be able to find it
by going all the way down to
Security, Identity and Compliance
and then clicking on IAM.
But imagine if you didn't know how to do that.
You'd be clicking on all these different,
you know, services and then trying to find
the individual service underneath it.
So the easiest way to do anything
if you're looking for a particular service
is just to search for it.
So we type in IAM and here we can see IAM loads up.
So I've not used this account before.
It is a brand new account.
We can see that I've got no user groups,
I've got no users.
By default, it's come with two roles.
I've got no policies, no identity providers, et cetera.
And we can see straight away
it's given me a security recommendation.
It's saying hey, you need to add
multi-factor authentication for your root user.
You can also click up here on your username
and click on Security Credentials.
That will then bring up this My Security Credentials page
and it will give you the same warning
which is basically you don't have MFA assigned
and we recommend that you do that.
So that's what we're going to do in this lecture.
It's very, very simple.
All we do is click on Assign MFA
and we can enter a device name for our MFA token.
So it's probably just gonna be my phone.
So I'm gonna do this on my phone.
And then I'm going to download
an authenticator app onto my smartphone.
So you can use Google Authenticator.
That's probably one of the most common.
I use an authentication app called Authy
which is spelled A-U-T-H-Y.
The reason I do that is
I can back it up to multiple devices.
So if I do lose my phone,
I don't lose all my two-factor authentications.
Authy's a great product and I use it all the time
but it's totally up to you
what authentication app you want to use.
You will need to download it on your smartphone.
So we scroll down and go ahead to Next.
And it basically says here
you need to install a compatible application
such as Google Authenticator, Duo Mobile
or Authy app on your mobile device or computer.
Once you've done that, you can hit Show QR Code.
Then all you need to do
is scan this QR code into your phone.
So open up Google Authenticator or Authy then hit Add New.
And then once you've got Add New,
the camera will come up and you just need to scan
this QR code into the app
and then that will give you two MFA codes.
So I'm gonna pause the video now and just do that.
And so we can now see
that my multi-factor authentication device
has been assigned to get this nice little green box.
And essentially all I did was I scanned the QR code
using my Authy app and then I waited
and it generated a code.
I had to wait for 30 seconds, generated another code.
I entered both those codes in
and then that assigns multi-factor authentication.
So in here I can go in and remove it if I want.
I'm going to do that now
just because you guys have all seen my QR code,
so I'm going to do it as a matter of security.
Go ahead and hit Remove.
'Cause I've only just created it though,
it's saying it's an unsuccessful HTTP response,
so it probably needs a couple of minutes
before I can remove it.
But I'm gonna go ahead and remove that
and then add another one.
So that's all we are going to cover off in this lecture.
Let's go onto my exam tips.
So onto my exam tips.
And if you're asked in the exam
how to go ahead and secure the root account,
always remember to turn on multi-factor authentication.
That's critical.
'Cause remember the root account
has full administrated access to the AWS console,
so you always want to turn on two factor
or multi-factor authentication on the root account.
The other ways you can secure the root account
is by creating an administrator group
for your administrators and then assigning
the appropriate permissions to the group.
You can also create user accounts
for your administrators and then add them to the group.
And we are gonna look at how to do that
in a couple of lectures from now.
But in the next lecture,
we're just going to learn about permissions
and how they work in identity access management.
Once you get a handle on how permissions work,
then we'll learn how we can assign permissions
to things like groups, users and roles.
So if you've got the time,
please join me in the next lecture, thank you.