Okay, hello, cloud gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture,
we're going to look at how we can control our users' actions
with IAM policy documents.
So the first thing we're going to look at
is how permissions work with IAM.
Then we are gonna look at some JSON examples
of policy documents.
Then we're going to look at
how policy documents actually work.
Then we'll go in and view
some policy documents within the console,
and then we'll do our exam tips.
So let's start with permissions.
How do we control permissions
using identity access management?
Well, we assign our permissions using policy documents
which made up of JSON,
which stands for JavaScript Object Notation.
And this is a good example of a policy document
and you will need to know how to read
and understand policy documents in your exam.
So in here, we've got a statement
and this is a JSON statement.
So you've got the version
and then we've got the statement itself.
And then inside the statement,
we've got a number of different key pairs.
So we've got the Effect which is Allow,
so basically, we're allowing.
The Action is what, and then it's a wild card,
so we're allowing everything.
And the Resource is a wild card as well.
So that just simply means everything.
So this gives you full administrator access.
This is saying, "Allow the action of everything
on every resource."
So this allows the person
who this policy document's attached to
or the group that this policy document's attached to,
the ability to do everything with every resource.
So that's the most basic policy document that you'll see.
This gives you full admin access to the AWS Console.
And what we typically will do
is we will take our policy documents
and we'll assign them to groups.
We can also assign them to users
and we can also assign them to roles.
And we'll look at best practices going forward.
Typically, you would not assign a policy document
directly to a user
because that can become difficult to manage.
What you would do is add the user into a group
and then assign the policy documents to a group.
And what happens is, is the user inherits the permissions
from the group.
But all the permissions that are controlled within AWS
come back to IAM policy documents.
So let's go ahead and have a look at how this works
in the AWS Console.
So here I am in the AWS Console.
If you go over here, you notice my region.
So in the last lecture we're talking about us-east-1
and it's probably the best region to go into.
Now if we go over to IAM,
I can click on my recently visited
or I can type it up here under my search and type in IAM.
If I click on that,
let's have a look what happens to my region.
You'll notice that it's changed, it's now gone to global.
And this is a really important topic
that can come up in the exam,
is that IAM does not work at a regional level,
it works at a global level.
So when you create a user or a policy or a role,
it's creating all of that at a global level.
So you can't have a user
that just exists in one particular region.
When you create a user, that user exists across all regions.
And if we go over here, we can click on Policies
and then this will bring up all our different policies.
And we can see if a policy is managed by AWS
because it will have the little AWS icon.
So in here, this is an AWS-managed policy.
We can create our own policies by clicking up here
and we would then have to do the appropriate JSON statement.
And then when we create and save that policy,
it wouldn't have this icon
because it's our own custom policy.
Now you can see right now there's over a thousand policies
that Amazon provide to you.
You pretty much can get away
with just using most of their templated policies
until you start doing really custom stuff.
But especially when you're just learning,
you can use their template of policies all the time.
Now over here you can see the type,
so this is by job function.
And we can see that administrator access
is at the very top,
and we can actually click on that
and see what this policy does.
And you can see permissions defined in this policy,
so it's going to allow 385 of 385 services.
And there'll probably be more services
by the time you watch this video.
But essentially, it's allowing full access on all resources
to all the different AWS services.
And if you wanna see the actual JSON,
it's incredibly simple.
It's basically giving a statement.
It's saying effect, allow, allow what,
will allow action, and then we've got our wildcard.
So we are allowing any action on all resources
and that's all that this policy does.
So we will go and show you how to assign
administrator access to individual users.
You might have some users who start at your company
and you need to give them full admin access
because they're your system administrators
or your cloud administrators.
We will show you that in the next lecture.
But at this stage, I just wanted to show you
how to access the policies.
You can click into any policy.
And then if you wanna see the actual JSON,
you just click across here and click on the JSON,
you'll be able to read the JSON statements.
So let's go onto my exam tips.
So onto my exam tips.
Just remember going into your exam
that you assign permissions using IAM policy documents.
These consist of JSON,
which is JavaScript Object Notation and it looks like this.
Now you will have more complicated policy documents
going into your exam.
So we will cover that off later on in the course,
how to read policy documents and how to understand them.
Typically, your policy documents
will be centered around S3,
but it could be anything to be honest.
They change the exam questions all the time.
Really, you just need to get comfortable reading this.
And what I would do honestly before going into your exam
is just go into IAM
and randomly click through different policies
and have a look at how the language works,
how the JSON works,
how you can grant access to particular resources.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
In the next lecture,
let's go ahead and create our users, our groups,
and we'll look at how we can assign policies
to our users and groups.
So if you've got the time,
please join me in the next lecture, thank you.