Okay.
Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome to this lecture.
Well, congratulations on completing
your first practical section of the course.
In this section we learned all about
identity access management,
which is a fundamental part of AWS.
So you need to know how identity access management works
not just for the exam
but also for using AWS in real life.
So let's cover off what we learned
in this section of the course.
The first thing was we looked at 4 steps
to securing our root account.
And in the very first lecture
we enabled multi-factor authentication on the root account.
Once multi-factor authentication
is turned on for our root account,
we need to take some more steps
enable to secure our root account.
And our end goal is to stop logging in
using the root account to administrate our AWS account.
We basically don't want to ever log in
to our root account again if we can avoid it.
And so to do that what we need to do
is create an administrator group for our administrators
and assign the appropriate permissions to that group.
We then need to create user accounts for our administrators.
And once we've created those user accounts,
we need to add those users to our administrator group.
And once we've done that, we then, in theory,
should no longer have to log in to AWS
using the root account again.
So we then learned about policy documents
and we can assign permissions using IAM policy documents.
And these consists of JavaScript Object Notation (or JSON).
And we looked at the most simplest policy document,
most universal.
This gives us administrator access to all AWS services.
And you can see that
because basically it says effect allow,
action which is wildcards.
So allow any action to any resource
and that will give us full admin access.
Now going into the exam,
you will get some IAM policy documents in JSON format
that you will need to interpret.
I would just recommend going through your policy documents
and looking at individual ones
and trying to figure out what it is they do.
And also to read the documentation.
We will have in-depth lectures
on IAM policy documents later on in the course as well.
Going into your exam, remember the following.
So, IAM is universal.
Like I said, it doesn't apply to Regions at this time.
When you create a user or a group, they're not created
in the Northern Virginia Region or the London Region--
they're created universally.
The root account is the account that's created
when you first set up your AWS account
and it has complete administrator access.
You should secure the root account as soon as possible.
You should never use it to log in from day to day.
And when you create a new user,
that user has no permissions when they're first created.
So you have to go in and add them to a group
where they will inherit permissions.
Or you could apply policy documents to a user
to give them permissions.
But like I said, that's not best practice
because that can be very difficult to manage.
When you create a user, it generates an access key
and secret access key,
when you essentially allow programmatic access
to the AWS console.
Remember that the access key and secret access key
are not the same as usernames and passwords.
These are used only for programmatic access--
so when you're using the command line.
We will cover that off later on in the course.
And you're only ever going to view your access key ID
and secret access key as well as your user password once.
So you need to save them in a secure location.
And you should always set up password rotation policies.
So you can create and customize
your own password rotation policies,
which is what we looked at in the last lecture.
And then finally, IAM federation.
You can combine your existing user accounts with AWS.
For example, when you log in to your PC,
usually using Microsoft Active Directory,
you can use the same credentials to log in to AWS
if you set up federation.
This is done using SAML, and that's the standard,
which is essentially Active Directory.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
Congratulations, you've completed the very first
technical section of the course.
In the next section of the course,
we're going to do an in-depth
look at S3 (Simple Storage Service).
And this is one of the oldest services in AWS.
And because of that, it comes up on the exam an awful lot.
The good news is it's very simple
and it is lots of fun to learn.
So if you've got the time,
please join me in the next section.
Thank you.