And welcome to this section of the course.
In this lecture, we're going to do an overview of S3.
S3 is 1 of the oldest services with AWS.
And for that reason,
it features very heavily in a lot of exams actually.
But certainly in the Certified Solutions
Architect Associate exam.
This is 1 of the bread-and-butter services
you need to know inside out in order to pass your exam.
So what are we going to learn in this lesson?
Well, we're going to learn what S3 is.
We're going to learn the basics around S3.
We're going to learn how we can work with S3 buckets.
We'll look at key-value stores.
We'll look at availability and durability.
We'll look at characteristics of S3,
and then we will look at how we can secure our data.
We'll look at the consistency model
when we upload data to S3,
and then we'll go on to our exam tips.
And then in the next lecture, we're going to have a look
at how we can create an S3 bucket.
So what is S3?
S3 stands for Simple Storage Service
and essentially it's object storage in the cloud.
It provides secure, durable,
and highly scalable object storage.
And S3 allows you to store and retrieve any amount
of data from anywhere on the web at a very low cost.
So it's extremely scalable.
And the other cool thing about S3
is it's really, really simple to use.
It comes with this really easy-to-use web interface,
which we will look at in the next lecture.
So S3 is object-based storage, and basically it manages data
as objects rather than in file systems or data blocks.
And all that means is S3 is basically a place
where you can store your files.
So you can upload any file type that you can think of to S3.
So you can upload things like image files, text files,
videos, web pages--you name it.
And that's what you can store in S3.
What you don't want to do with S3
is install an operating system.
So you can't run or install Windows or Linux on S3.
You can't run databases off S3.
Basically S3 is just a place to store your static files.
So your files that don't change,
and that's all S3 is: object-based storage.
So in terms of the basics,
you get unlimited storage with S3.
The total volume of data
and the number of objects you can store is unlimited.
And objects can be up to 5 terabytes in size.
So you can start with 0 bytes
and go all the way up to 5 terabytes.
So you can store some pretty big files in S3.
So where do we store our files?
Well, we store our files in a thing called a bucket.
An S3 bucket is basically a folder inside S3.
So you might have a bucket for your test and dev.
You might have a bucket for your finance department.
You might have a bucket for your vacation photos from 2015.
Basically everywhere you store your files
is in these things called buckets.
Now working with S3 buckets,
what you need to understand is it's a universal namespace.
So if you try and register the name test-bucket,
I guarantee you that was taken, you know, over a decade ago.
Somebody owns the bucket test-bucket.
So all AWS accounts share the S3 namespace.
And for that reason,
your S3 bucket name has to be globally unique.
You won't be able to register acloudguru, for example,
because we already own that.
You won't be able to register test-bucket.
But you might be able to register a bucket in your name
with your date of birth or something like that.
And you'll need to understand how the S3 URLs work
because this can come up in the exam.
So when you create a bucket--
let's say it's called acloudguru--
the URL that will be generated will always
be https:// then the name of the bucket, then .s3,
and then . the region that it's going to be in.
So in here we've got acloudguru.s3.us-east-1
and then it's always .amazonaws.com,
and then / and then essentially the key name,
so this is your file name,
so it could be Ralphie.jpg.
Ralphie is the A Cloud Guru office dog.
So when you upload a file to S3,
if that upload is successful,
your browser will receive a HTTP 200 code
and that can be a very popular exam topic.
So just remember that going into your exam as well.
So I mentioned before that S3 basically works
off a key-value store.
So the key is simply the name of the object.
So if we were to upload a photo of the A Cloud Guru
office dog, Ralphie, the key would be Ralphie.jpg.
We then have the value, which is the data itself.
And this is just made up of a sequence of bytes.
We also can have the version ID.
This is when we have versioning enabled on the bucket
and we're going to have a look at that later on
in this section of the course.
But this is important for storing
multiple versions of the same object.
So you can have multiple versions of the file within S3.
And then we have our metadata.
And throughout this course,
you're always going to hear the word metadata.
It relates to various things within AWS.
Just remember metadata is simply data about data.
So in this case with S3,
the data about the data that we're storing.
So this could be the content type,
this could be the last time that the file was modified,
etc., etc.
So that's what we have at a high level
when we upload our objects to S3.
We have the key, we have the value, the version ID,
and then the metadata as well.
So just remember S3 is a safe place to store your files.
The data is always spread across multiple devices
and facilities in order to ensure
availability and durability.
So it's not just in a single data center in a single server.
It's always spread across multiple devices
and multiple facilities.
It can be across multiple Availability Zones,
but we'll come to that in a second.
But just remember it's done this way to ensure availability
and durability as well.
So S3 is highly available and highly durable
and it's built for availability.
It's built for 99.95% to 99.99%
service availability depending on the S3 tier.
We're going to cover off the tiers in a second.
And then it's also designed for durability.
And durability just means
is your files going to be lost at some point?
And it's designed for what's called 11 9's durability.
So this is 99.999999999.
I'm not going to read it all out,
but it goes to 9 decimal places.
So there's 11 9's in that number.
So 11 9's durability for data stored in S3.
So you should not lose any objects
stored on standard S3.
So what is standard S3?
Well, that's just normal S3.
Again, it's designed for high availability and durability.
Standard S3 is essentially the default version
of S3 when you store your objects.
So data's stored redundantly
across multiple devices in multiple facilities.
So at least 3 Availability Zones.
It's designed for 99.99% availability
and 11 9's durability.
It's designed for frequently accessed data.
So if you're frequently accessing it,
maybe you're reading and writing
to it every second or even every hour or every day.
That's what S3 is built for,
and it's suitable for most workloads.
So like I said, it's the default storage class,
and it's use cases include things like websites,
content distribution, mobile and gaming applications,
big data analytics, etc., etc.
So that's S3 Standard.
We do have tiered storage within S3.
So S3 offers a range of storage classes
designed for different use cases.
So S3 Standard fits most use cases,
but it doesn't fit all use cases.
And we'll cover off the different tiers in a second.
One thing you do need to know is you get a thing
called lifecycle management,
and this is where you define rules
to automatically transition your objects
or files to a cheaper storage tier
or to delete objects that are no longer required
after a set period of time.
We're going to have a whole lecture on that coming up.
And then, like I said earlier, we also have versioning.
And with versioning,
all versions of an object are stored in S3
and they can be retrieved, including deleted objects.
So we'll have a look at that in further detail later on
in this section of the course.
In terms of securing our data,
we can secure our data in a number of different ways.
So we can have server-side encryption.
And this is where we can set default encryption
on a bucket to encrypt all new objects
when they're stored in the bucket.
So as soon as you upload an object to your bucket
that object will be encrypted.
So if somebody breaks into the AWS data center
and starts stealing hard drives--which is highly unlikely,
but you never know--
that means that they would not be able to access
your objects because it would be encrypted.
We then also have access control lists,
and this defines which AWS accounts or groups
are granted access and the type of access
that they're granted.
And you can attach S3 access control lists
to individual objects, to individual files within a bucket.
It gives you that much of a fine-grained approach.
And then we have bucket policies.
And these are policies that are specific
to what actions are allowed or denied
for that particular bucket.
So you could allow Alice to put
but not delete objects into a bucket.
And bucket policies are bucket wide.
It's very similar to what we looked at with IAM policies.
Bucket policies are simply JSON policies,
and you attach them to buckets
and they will apply across the bucket as a whole.
Whereas with access control lists,
you can actually drill down your permissions
to individual objects and individual files
within your bucket.
In terms of the data consistency model with S3.
Right now it's strong read-after-write consistency.
So as soon as you upload a new object
or put a new object or overwrite an existing object in S3,
any subsequent read request immediately
receives the latest version of the object.
So if I was to create a new text file and I upload it to S3
and I was trying to read that text file, like, you know,
a couple of milliseconds
after it had finished writing to S3,
I'm going to get a successful read of that object.
Likewise, if I went in and updated a file
and then I immediately went to read that object
after I've done the update,
I'm going to get the newest version of the file.
And you get strong consistency for list operations.
So after you write objects to your S3 bucket,
you can immediately perform a listing object
or a listing command, which basically just lists
all the objects in your bucket.
And you'll be able to see that new file
being created immediately.
So just remember going into your exam,
the consistency model for S3 is strong read after write.
As soon as you've written something to S3,
it should be immediately available.
So in terms of what you need to know for your exam.
Just remember that S3 is object-based storage.
So objects are simply files.
You can't install an operating system or a database on S3.
It's not suitable for that.
It's simply for flat or static files.
Your files can be 5 terabytes in size,
up to 5 terabytes in size.
Starting from 0 bytes and you get unlimited storage.
So the total volume of data
and the number of objects you can store
within S3 is unlimited.
And just remember that your files are stored in buckets
and that S3 is a universal namespace.
So when you create a bucket, it has to be a unique name.
And the web address that's created will always
be https:// the bucket name, then .s3, and then . the
region. So it could be us-east-1, for example,
and then .amazonaws.com,
and then it will be / and then the key value pair
or any folders that you create within the bucket.
And remember that when you do a successful command line
or API upload, you're always going to get back
a HTTP page 200 status code
saying that your upload has been successful.
And then finally some 4 S3 object tips.
Just remember that S3 consists of a key.
So the key is simply the object name.
So in our example, we used Ralphie,
the A Cloud Guru office dog.
So Ralphie.jpg.
The value is the data itself,
which is made up of a sequence of bytes.
We then have our version ID, which allows you
to store multiple versions of the same object.
And then we have our metadata,
which is simply data about data.
So this could be data about the data that you are storing--
for example, the content type
or the last time it was modified, etc.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
It's very high level and theoretical right now.
In the next lecture,
we're going to go ahead and create our very first S3 bucket.
And we're going to go ahead and upload some objects to it
and try and make them public.
We're going to look at the security implications
behind that as well.
So if you've got the time,
please join me in the next lecture.
Thank you.
