Okay, hello, cloud gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look at the different storage
classes for S3.
So we're going to look at S3 standard,
S3 infrequently accessed, S3 one zone, infrequently
accessed, S3 intelligent tiering.
Then we're going to look at archiving using Glaciers.
There's three different options.
We'll then have a quick look at our performance levels
across S3, what our different storage costs are
and then what our exam tips are.
Now, one thing I will tell you going
into the exam is you will be tested
on the different types of
S3 storage classes
and you will be given scenario-based questions
basically saying, where's the best one?
What's the best class to store your files on?
So just bear that in mind.
You do need to know this inside out going into the exam.
So let's start with S3 standard.
This is basically provides you with high availability
and durability and data is stored redundantly
across multiple devices in multiple facilities.
So we're talking equal to or greater than three availability
zones, comes with 99.99% availability, and it comes
with 11 nines durability.
So it's basically designed for frequent access
and it's perfect for frequently accessed data
and it's suitable for most workloads.
And this is
basically the default storage class,
so when people are talking about S3
they're talking about S3 standard,
and its use cases include things like websites,
content distribution,
mobile and gaming apps, big data analytics, et cetera,
et cetera.
So where you see this in the exam is if you've
got a media company for example, and you need a place
to host video files or you know pictures
or any kind of static object
I want you to think of S3 standard.
Another popular exam question is around static websites.
And we've already had a look at how we can do that
on S3, but if you're ever talking about
static websites or a website that does not require
a backend database connection
or is not dynamic using things like PHP for example
then I want you to think of S3 standard.
Next up we have S3 standard
infrequently accessed, and it's basically
just S3 Standard-IA is what it's referred to.
So it's designed for infrequently access
data, what it does give you though is rapid access.
So it's used for data that is access less
frequently, but requires rapid
access when you need it, and you basically
pay to access the data, so there is
a low per gigabyte storage price
And a per gigabyte retrieval
fee, and your use cases
Is where basically
you need long-term storage for things
like backups, for example, and data stores
for disaster recovery files, et cetera.
But you wanna minimize your cost
but you still need instant access
to that data.
That's where you'd use S3 Standard Infrequently Accessed.
Now it comes with 99.9% availability, and again
11 nines durability.
Now there is another one
which is S3 infrequently accessed
but this is basically only using one zone.
So it's like S3 infrequently accessed
but the data is stored redundantly
within a single availability zone.
So it's only using one availability zone that actually
costs 20% less than regular S3 Standard-IA.
And this is great
for long-lived infrequently accessed non-critical data.
So don't store data that you can't afford to lose access
to on S3 one zone infrequently accessed.
You'd only use this where you can afford to lose the data
but you need to minimize costs
and its non-critical data essentially,
comes with 99.5% availability and 11 nines durability.
Now you might be wondering, I don't know whether
I'll be accessing my data frequently or infrequently
or sometimes I actually need to access my data frequently
and then other times I don't need to access it at all.
So what would you use?
Would you use S3 standard?
Would you use S3 Standard Infrequently Accessed?
Well, if you've got frequent and infrequently
accessed data, you can actually use a storage
class called S3 Intelligent Tiering
and this automatically moves your data
to the most cost effective tier based
on how frequently you access each object.
And it has 99.9% availability and 11 nines durability.
So it's basically using AI and machine learning to figure
out how frequently you access your data
and then it will store it
on the storage class that's going to save you
the most money based off your access patterns.
So it's really, really good for optimizing costs.
It's a monthly fee of 0.0025 cents per 1,000 objects.
So now that we've covered
off all the different S3 storage tiers
we're going to move to Glacier.
And Glacier is basically almost what it sounds like.
It's a way of archiving your data long-term.
So storing your data for long terms
and basically you pay for each time you access your data.
And it's used only for archiving data.
So Glacier is really cheap storage and it's optimized
for data that is very infrequently accessed.
So we've got option one
which is called Glacier Instant Retrieval.
Now this provides long-term data archiving
but you still have instance retrieval time for your data.
So if you've got critical data that you probably
might not need to use, maybe only once a year
but you need to access it instantly
then you want Glacier Instant Retrieval.
Next up, we have Glacier Flexible Retrieval
and this is the ideal storage class
for archive data that does not require immediate access
but needs the flexibility to retrieve large sets of data
at no cost, such as backup or disaster recovery use cases.
And it can be minutes in terms
of retrieval time or up to 12 hours.
So you'd only use this if you can afford to wait
for 12 hours to access this data.
So if it's backups for things that are not key
so not your production web servers, for example
you could then store it with Glacier Flexible Retrieval.
So if you can afford to wait for 12 hours
that would be a good option.
But if it's a backup for something that is key
like production database for example
then you probably want Glacier Instant Retrieval.
And then finally we have option three
which is Glacier Deep Archive
and this is the cheapest storage class on AWS
and it's designed for customers that retain data sets
for seven to 10 years or longer to meet customer needs
and regulatory requirements.
And the standard retrieval time is around 12 hours
but for bulk retrievals it's around 48 hours.
So you'd use this where essentially you need to store data
for long periods of time.
Maybe you work in the financial services industry
and you have a regulatory requirement that you have to
you know, store all your records for seven or 10 years
and you need it with the cheapest option possible
but you can afford to wait
up to 48 hours to retrieve your data.
And in terms of the availability and durability
for Glaciers it's the same across all three options.
So it's 99.99% availability and 11 nines durability.
So let's have a look
at the performance across the S3 storage classes.
So we have S3 standard, S3 Intelligent Tiering,
S3 Standard Infrequently Accessed
S3 One Zone Infrequently Accessed.
And then we've got our three different versions of Glacier.
Take a note of the availability zones.
Essentially you've always got, your data's always stored
in three or more availability zones apart
from S3 One Zone availability.
And then really what you need to just get
to grips with is where you would use this storage class
in what scenarios for the exam.
So if you're doing any kind of archival
then obviously you want to look at Glacier
and then all you really need to figure
out is how fast you want to be able to restore your files
or it could also be what's the cheapest option?
And the same applies for S3.
It's all about how fast you can access your files
and whether or not price is driving the cost of the storage.
This is where it's going to come up in the exam.
So don't worry
you don't need to memorize this table, really
you just need to know the different storage classes
and their use cases.
In terms of costs
you just need to understand how it is priced
both for S3 and for Glacier.
So for S3
the most expensive one is just S3 standard.
If you want to intelligently basically control your costs
and optimize your costs
for known or unknown access patterns, then you
want S3 Intelligent Tiering that's going
to move it around between infrequently accessed
and then just standard S3.
And then if you need to access your data and it sits
on S3 standard infrequently accessed as well
as one zone infrequently accessed
then a retrieval fee is going to apply.
In terms of Glacier
the most expensive one is S3 Glacier.
So that's just your standard Glacier.
Flexible retrieval is slightly cheaper
and then the cheapest is going to be Glacier Deep Archive.
And again, just remember your retrieval time
for deep archive is between 12 to 48 hours.
Glacier flexible retrieval can be minutes
but it could be up to 12 hours, whereas with normal Glacier
then it's going to be instant access.
And a retrieval fee applies for all three storage classes.
So that's basically it.
Let's go onto my exam tips.
So like I keep saying
basically you just need to know the different types
of S3 storage classes and the three different types
of Glacier and where you would use them.
So S3 standard suitable for most workloads
these are things like websites, content distribution
and mobile and gaming apps, et cetera, et cetera.
S3 infrequently accessed is where
you access critical data, things like backup
and data stores for disaster recovery files, et cetera.
And you need instant access to it
but you wanna keep your cost down.
Then you'd use S3 infrequently accessed,
One Zone Infrequently Accessed is basically
for your long term, infrequently access non-critical data
so data that you can afford to lose.
And then you've got S3 Intelligent Tiering
and this is best
for unknown or unpredictable access patterns.
Moving on to Glacier.
So Glacier Instant Retrieval is going to
give you long-term data archiving
with instant retrieval for your data.
Then we've got flexible retrieval
and this is basically the ideal storage class
for archive data that does not require immediate access
but needs the flexibility to retrieve large data sets
at no cost, such as backup and disaster recovery use cases.
And this is basically can be minutes
or it could be up to 12 hours.
And then deep archive is basically where you just
need the cheapest storage possible
and you can afford to wait
up to 48 hours to retrieve your files.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.