Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at
Lifecycle Management with S3.
So we're going to explore what Lifecycle Management is,
then we'll look at Lifecycle Management
and how we can use it with versioning.
Then we'll go in and do a demo
and then we'll move on to my exam tips.
So what is Lifecycle Management?
Well this basically automates moving your objects
between the different storage tiers,
thereby maximizing your cost effectiveness.
So it's a way of automating,
moving your objects to save you money.
So if you're not using an object
or it hasn't been accessed recently,
you can move it from S3 Standard
to S3 Infrequently Accessed.
So say if it hasn't been accessed in the last 30 days,
it would automatically move to S3-IA.
And then if you haven't used that object
in let's say 90 days after it's been moved to S3-IA,
it would then be moved onto Glacier and archived off.
And of course, Glacier is a lot cheaper than S3 Standard.
So that's all Lifecycle Management is.
It's a way of automating the removal of your objects
from one storage tier to another to save you some money.
You can also use Lifecycle Management with Versioning.
So you can actually use Lifecycle Management
to move different versions of your objects
to different storage tiers as well,
thereby saving you even more money.
So let's go into the AWS console
and have a look at how we can do this.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS console.
We're going to go over to S3, which is always under Storage.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to go into
one of the buckets I created earlier,
the ryan3141kroonenberg,
and this was the one that had our 2 image files on it.
And in this, I'm going to go ahead
and turn on Lifecycle Management and Versioning.
So if I go into Properties, I can turn bucket versioning on.
So let's go ahead and enable.
Also, once you enable versioning on a bucket,
like I said in a previous lecture, you can only suspend it,
you can't remove it.
So just bear that in mind.
So Versioning is now turned on.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to go over to Management, and under Management,
we can see lifecycle rules.
And what we want to do is go ahead
and create a lifecycle rule.
So first thing we need to do
is give the lifecycle rule a name.
So I'll just call it MyLifeCycle and then Rule.
And then I'm going to, we can either limit the scope
of this rule to using 1 or more filters.
You could do it per directory or per folder within a bucket
or per objects within a bucket.
I'm going to apply it to all objects in the bucket,
going to acknowledge that this rule will apply
to all objects in the bucket and clicking there.
And then what we're going to do is we can see
we've got a list of different actions,
so we can use lifecycle rules to move current versions
of objects between storage classes,
move non-current versions of objects
between storage classes,
expire current versions of objects,
permanently delete non-current versions of objects,
and then delete expired object delete markers,
or incomplete multipart uploads.
So to keep it simple,
we're just going to move it between storage classes.
So we'll click in here.
And then basically what we want to do
is create a set of rules for our transitions.
So right now, our objects are sitting in S3,
and let's say that
after 30 days, we want to move it
to Standard-Infrequently Access storage.
We can do that.
Then we can go in here and add another transition,
and we might just want to move it over to Glacier,
Glacier Instant Retrieval,
or perhaps Glacier Flexible Retrieval,
which is formally known as Glacier, or Glacier Deep Archive.
And you can see in here the number of days
minimum storage requirements,
if you're moving from S3 over to Glacier,
so we've got 90, 90, and 180.
So what I'm going to do
is just do it over to Glacier Deep Archive.
I'm going to type in here 180.
I'm going to get this warning message here
about transitioning smaller objects
to Glacier Deep Archive will incur per object costs.
That's fine.
I'm going to go ahead and hit I Acknowledge.
And then in here, we can actually see how it all works.
So we've got day 0,
we upload our object to S3. Day 30,
that object is then moved to Standard-Infrequently Accessed.
And then day 180,
the objects are then moved to Glacier Deep Archive.
So that's all it is.
We go ahead and hit Create Rule.
And there we go.
We can see our Lifecycle rules have now been created.
What we can do is sometimes it says it may take some time
for the configuration to be updated.
So if we just click in here and hit Refresh,
we can now see our MyLifeCycleRule in there.
So let's go onto my exam tips.
So just remember going into your exam,
that lifecycle management rules automate moving of objects
between our different storage tiers.
It can be used in conjunction with versioning.
So you can just do this
for previous versions of objects,
or you can do it for every object within a bucket.
And like I said,
it can be applied to current versions
as well as previous versions.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to next lecture.
Thank you.