Okay. Hello, Cloud Gurus.
And welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at S3 Object Lock
and Glacier Vault Lock.
So we're going to start off with S3 Object Lock
and we'll look at what it is.
It comes with 2 different modes.
It comes with governance mode and compliance mode.
So we'll explore what they are.
We'll then look at retention periods and legal holds,
and then we'll move on to what Glacier Vault Lock is,
and on to my exam tips.
Now, this definitely comes up in the exam, so
you will need to know what S3 Object Lock is.
And essentially, you use it to store objects
using a WORM model.
And a WORM model just stands for write once, read many.
So you can only write once to your objects,
but you can read them many, many times.
And it can help prevent objects from being deleted
or modified for a fixed amount of time or indefinitely.
And you can use S3 Object Lock
to meet your regulatory requirements.
So it could be that you have regulatory requirements
from the federal government, for example,
and these regulatory requirements could require WORM
storage, or you could also use it to add an extra layer of
protection against object changes and deletions.
So we have our 2 different modes,
and we'll start with governance mode.
And in governance mode,
users can't overwrite or delete an object version
or alter its lock settings
unless they have special permissions.
So with governance mode, you basically protect objects
from being deleted for most users,
but you still grant some users permission
to alter the object or retention settings of that object
or even allow those users to delete the object if necessary.
And so this is the key thing.
Essentially, if you get a scenario question
where you do need some of your users
to be able to alter an object, or to delete an object,
then you want governance mode.
If, however, you want to make sure
that nobody can delete an object,
then you want compliance mode.
And this is where a protected object version
can't be overwritten or deleted by any user,
including the root user in your AWS account.
And so when an object is locked in compliance mode,
its retention mode can't be changed
and its retention period can't be shortened.
So you could set its retention mode and period for a year,
and you can't then go in and change that object,
even if you're the root user.
So compliance mode ensures an object's version
can't be overwritten or deleted
for the duration of the retention period.
So if you get a scenario-based question where it's talking
about protecting your data and so that no users
can go in and alter that data or delete that data,
then you want S3 Object Lock with compliance mode.
In terms of our retention periods--
so a retention period protects an object version
for a fixed amount of time.
When you place a retention period on an object version,
Amazon basically stores an S3 timestamp
in the object's version's metadata.
Metadata is just data about data.
And this basically indicates
when the retention period expires.
So you might want to place a retention period
for 10 days, 100 days, or a year.
And after the retention period expires,
the object version can be overwritten or deleted
unless you also place a legal hold on the object version.
And of course you might be wondering, "What's a legal hold?"
Well, legal holds basically are S3 Object Locks
that also enable you to place
a legal hold on the object version.
And so it's like a retention period,
except a legal hold prevents an object version
from being overwritten or deleted.
However, a legal hold doesn't have
an associated retention period
and remains in effect until it's removed.
So you have to remove a legal hold
in order to go in and delete that object.
So legal holds can be freely placed and removed by any user
who has the S3 put object legal holds permission.
So remember that going into your exam as well.
So that's Object Locks covered off.
Next thing we need to look at is Glacier Vault Lock.
So Glacier Vault Lock basically allows you to easily deploy
and enforce compliance controls for individual
S3 Glacier vaults with a vault lock policy.
So you can specify controls, such as WORM,
in a vault lock policy
and lock the policy from future edits.
And once locked, the policy can no longer be changed.
So essentially, Glacier Vault Lock
is a way of applying a WORM model to Glacier.
That's all Glacier Vault Lock is.
Just remember the WORM model,
which is write once and read many.
And if you hear that being applied
in a scenario-based question, they're talking about Glacier,
and you're going to want to store it in Glacier Vault Lock.
So onto my exam tips.
So if you see the term WORM in a scenario based question
and it's talking about S3,
then you're going to want to use S3 Object Lock
to store your objects using a write once, read many model.
Object Lock can be done on individual objects,
or it can be applied across the bucket as a whole.
And Object Locks come in 2 modes which we covered off.
So we have governance mode and compliance mode.
So remember that compliance mode is simply
where a protected object version
can't be overwritten or deleted by any user whatsoever.
Whereas governance mode basically prevents most users
but you can have some users who are able
to either alter an object or delete it.
Finally, moving on to S3 Glacier Vault Lock.
If you see a scenario-based question
where it's talking about WORM models with Glacier,
I want you to think immediately of S3 Glacier Vault Lock.
This allows you to easily deploy
and enforce compliance controls
for individual S3 Glacier vaults with a vault lock policy.
And you can specify controls, such as WORM,
in a vault lock policy
and lock the policy from future edits.
And once locked, the policy can no longer be changed.
So again, to summarize,
if you see a scenario-based question, and
they're talking about S3 and you want to use a WORM model,
I want you to think of S3 Object Lock.
That comes in 2 different modes,
compliance mode and governance mode.
If they're talking about a WORM model with Glacier,
I want you to immediately think of S3 Glacier Vault Lock.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.