Okay, hello cloud gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look
at how we can launch an EC2 instance.
So this is a demonstration
and I'm going to now log into the AWS console.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS console.
We can find EC2 by going down to Compute
and then EC2 is in here.
So let's open up EC2.
Note that I'm in the Northern Virginia region.
EC2 does work on a regional basis
just like most of AWS services.
And in here I can see that I've got no running instances,
I've got no Load Balancers,
got no Auto Scaling Groups, et cetera.
We'll learn what all these things are
as we go through the course.
And so the first thing I want to do,
is basically launch an instance.
I'm gonna click here and go and Launch Instance.
And then the first thing we need to do is,
give our instance a name.
So I'm gonna call it MyWebServer1.
And in here we've got our operating system image
or sometimes referred to as Amazon Machine Image or AMI.
And here we've got the different flavors.
So we're going to be using the Amazon Linux AMI
for the rest of this course.
You can use macOS, you can use Ubuntu,
you can use Windows, you can use Red Hat,
you can use a whole bunch of different AMIs,
but we're gonna use Amazon Linux AMI
for the rest of this course.
It is free tier eligible,
so it is does fall within free tier,
so we don't have to pay for it
so long as the instant size is small
and depending on how many instances we run.
And here we can have a look at the architecture.
So you've got /86 or (indistinct)
we're just gonna do the default, which is /86.
And in here we've got our instance type.
So we're gonna be using a t2.micro
which has one vCPU and one gig of memory.
If you wanted to do something quite a bit bigger,
you could scroll all the way down
and do like a c5.18xlarge.
This says 72 vCPUs and 144 gigs of memory.
But of course you will be paying for that.
So we're just gonna leave everything as default.
In here, we've got our Key Pair.
So we're gonna create a new key pair
and I'm just gonna call this MyKeyPair.
Key pair is essentially,
I want you to think of a lock and a key.
So when you provision your EC2 instances,
they're locked automatically
and the way you access them is you need a key to get in.
It's basically sort of like a password.
So what we're doing now is we're provisioning in the key.
So I'm calling it MyKeyPair.
You can either have it as a .pem,
which is what we're gonna use the rest of this course.
Or if for some reason you are using Windows
and you're trying to SSH in using Putty
you can use a .ppk.
But to be honest, it's so much easy to SSH
in using the AWS console now.
So we're just gonna leave it as .pem.
So go ahead and create our key pair
and that will now download for us.
I'm gonna scroll down.
This is our Network Settings.
So when you provision an EC2 instance,
it's always going to be behind a security group.
And a security group is essentially just a virtual firewall.
So in here we can hit Create Security Group
or Select an Existing Security Group.
We're gonna create a security group
for the purposes of this lecture.
And the security group is going to have
a name of launch-wizard-1
so you can see it there.
And we're gonna say allow SSH traffic from anywhere.
And we're also gonna allow HTTPS and HTTP traffic
from the internet 'cause it is a web server after all.
Scrolling down, we've got our storage.
So how big do you want the hard drive to be?
I'm just gonna leave it at eight gigs,
gp3 is general purpose three
so we'll learn about EBS volume types later on.
But this is just a type of hard disk
so it just means it's running
on solid state drives or SSD drives.
And that's it really.
We won't go into Advanced Details yet.
We'll do that in the next lecture of the course.
And all we need to do is go ahead
and hit Launch Instance.
That is now launching our instance
and we can see here successfully launched.
So if we want to view it,
we'll just go over to Instances.
We can see that its state is pending.
You can click here and have a look at the different details.
So we've got our details here.
Security will show you what security group it's in.
So here's my security group in here
and we can see that port 22
port 443 and port 80 are open to the world.
So that's all that 0.0.0.0/0 means.
It means that anyone can connect
to the SSH port using port 22.
And same with HTTPS 443
and then HTTP, which is port 80.
If we go back to our instance at the top,
we can do our networking.
Here is our Public IP address.
We could open that but it won't do anything
'cause we haven't installed a web server on it.
So we haven't installed Apache for example.
Storage is in here.
So this is our root device volume or our EBS volume
which is essentially just our hard drive.
You can see it's eight gigs and it's attached.
Status check just tells us
basically the system status check that it's running
and that the instant status check that it's running.
We've got monitoring in here,
which is just some basic monitoring
such as CPU Utilization, et cetera.
And then we've got our tags.
And right now the only tag that we've got is the name
and it's MyWebServer
and we can add additional tags to it.
So I can see now that it is up and running.
Now in order to connect to it,
we just select this little checkbox,
go to Connect
and then we're going to use EC2 Instance Connect.
You can use your own SSH clients.
So this might be terminal on Mac
or it might be Putty on Windows,
but to be honest, Amazon make it so easy.
Now you can actually just connect
in through your web browser
and all we need to do is go ahead and hit Connect.
So we are now connecting to our EC2 instance.
And there we go.
We can elevate our privileges to root.
So sudo su and then I can go and do some updates.
So type in dmf and then update and then -yes.
And that's checking for updates.
And there's nothing to update at this stage.
So I am connected to my Amazon Linux AMI right now
and if I want to quit out,
I just type exit and then exit,
and that logs me out.
So if I go back to Instances
what we can do now do,
is just go over to MyWebServer
and we can go ahead and terminate it
'cause we don't need this instance.
And that's it.
You've basically spun up
your very first EC2 instance in the AWS cloud.
So go in and hit Terminate.
It can take a minute or two
depends on the speed of your connection.
You can see now that,
the instant state is shutting down.
Can move these along, they are dynamic.
You can see that this was deployed
in an availability zone us-east-1c.
So that is random.
And if as we go through the course,
we'll learn about how we can deploy
to particular availability zones
and how we can create high availability architecture
by deploying to multiple availability zones.
And now you can see in here that it has been terminated.
So congratulations everyone,
you have taken your first step into a bigger world
by creating your first EC2 instance in the AWS Cloud.
If you've got any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.