Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look
at "Security Groups and Bootstrap Scripts."
So the first thing we're going to look at
is how humans sense things, so how we perceive things,
and then we're going to look at how computers communicate.
And then we'll look at security groups
and then what a bootstrap script is,
and then we'll tie it all in together into a demo,
and then we will go on to my exam tips.
So let's start with basic human senses.
So we see, hear, and feel using different mechanisms.
So light--we see light using our eyes.
And sound--we hear sound using our ears.
And heat--we can feel heat using our skin.
So we have these different senses and different ways
of interpreting our outside environment.
And so that really leads on to how computers communicate.
So Linux, for example--when you want to administer Linux,
you do this over SSH, and this is over a port number.
So it's over port 22. Port 22 is the SSH port.
Windows uses RDP, and this is done on Port 3389,
so this is how you interface with Windows machines remotely.
So when you remote desktop in,
you're doing that over port 3389.
When you're accessing websites using HTTP,
that's on port 80,
and when you access HTTPS, that's on port 443.
And so when you communicate with a computer,
you do so over different mechanisms
depending on what it is you're trying to communicate.
So if you're trying to communicate over SSH,
you want to do that over port 22.
If you're trying to just do some basic web browsing
that's not encrypted using SSL,
then that's on port 80.
If you want to use the HTTPS site, that's on port 443.
So that's all you need to understand
about how computers communicate
for this purpose of this exam,
and of course, if you really want to get
into advanced networking,
we have a great advanced networking course,
where we deep dive into advanced networking.
So that leads us on to security groups.
So security groups are basically just virtual firewalls
for your EC2 instance,
and by default, everything is blocked.
So when you create an EC2 instance,
you won't be able to SSH into it.
You won't be able to go and use it as a web server
because port 22 is going to be blocked,
and port 80 is going to be blocked.
So in order to unblock it,
you need to open up those ports in a security group,
and to do that, you just basically open up
this IP address range, which is 0.0.0.0/0.
So in order to be able to communicate to your EC2 instances
via SSH or RDP or HTTP, then you're going to need
to open up the correct ports,
and we're going to do that in a console demo in a second.
Now, in a production environment,
you'd only open up 0.0.0.0/0 to port 80 and to port 443,
so HTTP and HTTPS.
You wouldn't do it for RDP or for SSH
because it means anyone could start brute forcing
their way into your EC2 instance.
But just for the purposes of this demo and this course,
we're just going to open it up
because most of the time, your EC2 instances won't exist
longer than a couple of minutes,
so it's fairly safe.
Now, bootstrap script is a script that runs
when the instance first runs.
So when you first boot up an EC2 instance,
a bootstrap script will go in
and start running at root level.
So it has root-level permissions,
and it can go in and do anything.
So here's a good example of a bootstrap script.
So on the very first line, we've got the number symbol,
and we've got an exclamation mark,
and this is called a shebang.
And then we've got /bin/bash,
and that's the path to our interpreter.
And our interpreter just basically takes our commands
and interprets basically what to do, how to run them.
So it's almost as if you're on the command line,
so anything you type underneath that will run automatically.
So here, we've got yum install httpd -yes,
so we're installing Apache.
And then we're starting the Apache service.
So yum service httpd start.
So by adding these tasks at boot time,
it adds to the amount of time it takes to boot the instance.
However, it allows you to automate the installation
of your application, so you can go in
and create a web server straightaway.
You don't need to log in and physically do it.
You can run a script that goes in,
installs the Apache service, and then starts that service.
So that's what bootstrap scripts are,
and they'll save you an awful lot of time in the long run.
So this is in the resources section of the course.
This is the bootstrap script we're going to run.
So here, we've got our shebang
and the path to our interpreter.
Then we're running a yum update.
We're installing Apache.
We're starting the Apache service.
We're going over to our /var/www/html directory,
which is basically the root directory for our web server,
and then essentially, we're just creating
a little index.html file that says, "Hello Cloud Gurus."
So all you need to do is copy that into your clipboard,
go over to the AWS Management Console,
and we're going to go and use EC2 under Compute.
And what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead
and launch an instance.
And we're going to go in, and we're going to use
an Amazon Linux 2 AMI.
And then what we're going to do
is we're going to use a t2.micro.
Go ahead and hit Next.
Now, to do your bootstrap scripts,
you've got to go down here, and it's under here as User
data. So this is what we're going to pass to our instance.
So all you need to do is paste that in there.
So you can see it in there, paste as text,
and that's how bootstraps script.
And we leave everything else as default,
and we're going to go ahead and add our storage.
We're just going to use our standard storage.
And in here, we've got our tags.
We're going to leave that.
And in here, we've got our security group.
So let's create a new security group,
and we basically edit--everything in the security group
is going to be a web server, so we'll call it WebDMZ.
So it's our Web Demilitarized Zone, so DMZ.
And here, I'm going to add a rule,
and I'm going to go ahead and add HTTP.
So you don't need to know all your port numbers,
and you'll never be quizzed on it
in the Solutions Architect Associate exam.
Amazon pre-populate the port numbers here,
so if I select HTTP, you can see
that that is open to Port 80.
If I add in HTTPS, so we'll go in here,
and HTTPS, you can see automatically,
it's going to populate that with port 443.
So that's a great way of saving some time.
So let's go ahead and hit Next,
and we'll go ahead and hit Launch.
And now, we're going to launch our instance,
and go ahead and hit Launch,
and so that is now launching our instance.
So our instance is going to sit behind a security group
that's open to port 80.
So we'll be able to go ahead and view that.
You actually click on Security and scroll down,
you'll be able to see the security group here,
and you'll be able to see the rules
that are associated with it here as well.
So we're going to just pause the video
and wait for this instance state to come up.
Okay, so my instance state is now up and running,
and what I'm going to do is just going to go back
to the bottom of the page.
I'll just make this a bit bigger so I can see it,
and scroll all the way to the top and go to Details,
and I'm just going to grab my public IP address
and copy that into my clipboard,
and I've just pasted it in here,
and you can see it says, "Hello Cloud Gurus."
So essentially, what we've done is we've automated
the deployment of a web server.
So we've gone in,
we've started and installed the Apache service.
We've updated all the security patches.
We've started the Apache service,
and then we've just created a little webpage
that says, "Hello Cloud Gurus,"
and we haven't needed to log in to the command line at all.
We've been able to do that automatically
using a bootstrap script,
and the reason we can go in and view a website
is because we've opened up port 80 on our security group.
Now, if you were to make any changes on the security group,
those changes will take effect immediately.
So if we were to delete port 80,
we would no longer be able to access that EC2 instance
over HTTP, so do remember that also going into your exam.
So on to my exam tips.
Like I said, just remember that changes to security groups
take effect immediately.
You can have any number of EC2 instances
within a security group.
You can have multiple security groups
attached to EC2 instances as well.
And then all inbound traffic is always blocked by default,
and all outbound traffic is allowed.
So that's all you need to remember
about security groups going into your exam.
And then with bootstrap scripts,
just simply remember what a bootstrap script is.
It's a script that runs when the instance first starts,
and it passes all user data to the EC2 instance
and can be used to install applications like web servers,
which is what we just did, or databases,
as well as do updates and more.
Now, a bootstrap script is called user data.
We also have a thing called metadata,
and we're going to cover that off in the next lecture.
So if you got the time, please join me in the next lecture.
Thank you.