In this lecture we're going to look at who owns what in the cloud, and by owns, we're talking about who is responsible for what in the cloud.

So the first thing I'm going to do is give you an analogy
of renting a car,
then we're going to look at renting resources in the cloud,
and then we're going to look at the crux of this lecture,
which is the shared responsibility model.
And it comes up time and time again
in the Certified Solutions Architect -
Associate exam as well as the security specialty
and a whole bunch of other exams.
So if you do want to go on and do other exams with AWS,
you need to know the shared responsibility model inside out.
We're just going to touch upon it briefly in this lecture.
I would highly recommend by the time
you finish the end of this course,
that you go and actually read
the shared responsibility model on AWS's website,
and we'll have a link to it in the resources section.
And then we'll cover off our exam tips.
So I want you to think, when you go and rent a car,
who is responsible for what?
What is your responsibility,
and what is the car rental company's responsibility?
Well, at a high level, you're responsible for not to damage
the vehicle when you're in control of it.
You're responsible not to speed and get any speeding fines.
And you're responsible for paying
things like tolls, for example,
whereas the rental car's responsibility is the car itself.
So they have to be in charge of things
like the tire pressure.
They have to make sure there's enough air
in the tires to responsibly lend it to you,
and they have to make sure it has a full tank
of gas when they give it to you.
And their overall responsibility
is in the mechanics of the car.
There's no point giving you a car
if it's suddenly going to break down.
Let's say the, you know, the exhaust is about to fall off.
So they're responsible for the physical parts of the car,
and you're responsible for what you do with the car.
And it's very similar in the cloud.
So who is responsible for what
when you rent resources in the cloud?
What are you responsible for,
and what is Amazon responsible for?
And that's where the shared responsibility model comes in.
So let's talk about Amazon's responsibility.
They're responsible for security of the cloud.
So they're responsible for the Regions,
the Availability Zones, the edge locations.
They basically don't advertise, you know,
where the Availability Zones are,
where the data centers are,
because they don't want people
just rocking up at their data centers trying to get in.
They're responsible for the physical security
of the data centers.
So to get in, you have to go through security checkpoints.
There'll be chain link fencing
around the data centers, etc, etc.
They're responsible for the hardware
and physical assets within the data center.
They're responsible for the computers,
the storage, the database, the network,
and the overall software that runs the entire stack.
So things like the hypervisor, for example,
and this is basically just controls the virtualization
on top of the physical components of AWS's cloud.
So what are you responsible for?
You're responsible for what you do with the cloud.
You're responsible for the security in the cloud.
So you're responsible for your customer data.
You don't want to store that in a place
that's publicly accessible where anyone can download it.
If you do that, that's your fault--that's not Amazon's.
You're responsible for things like your platform,
the applications, identity and access management,
which we're going to cover off in the next section.
You're responsible for the configuration
of your operating systems on your virtual machines,
the network and firewall configurations.
You're responsible for client-side encryption
as well as server-side encryption.
And you're also responsible
for generally just protecting your network traffic.
If you don't come from a tech background,
a lot of these are new words to you.
Don't worry as we go throughout the course
it'll make a lot more sense.
That's why I recommend reading the shared
responsibility model at the end of the course.
But going into the exam, basically, this is our exam tips.
I want you to think, when you get a scenario question and
they're talking about who's responsible for what,
ask yourself can you do this yourself
in the AWS Management Console?
And if you can, then you're likely responsible.
For example, security groups, IAM users,
patching your EC2 operating systems,
patching your databases running on EC2, etc.
Because you can do this in the AWS console,
you are going to be responsible.
And again, if you don't understand
what any of those words mean, don't worry about it.
We are going to cover it off later on,
but essentially you're responsible
for the things that you can control. If you
can't control it, then AWS is most likely responsible.
So you can't control how AWS manage their data centers.
You can't control what security cameras are turned on.
You can't control the cabling
that they've put into their data centers
or the patching of their database servers
or their operating systems, etc.,
the security patching of that.
You can't control that.
So if you can't control that,
then most likely AWS is responsible.
So as you go into your exam,
if you do get a scenario-based question
talking about the shared responsibility model,
who's responsible for what,
I just want you to ask this 1 question in your head:
Can I do this myself in the AWS Management Console?
And if you can, then you're probably going to be responsible
and if not, then AWS is likely to be responsible.
And we have a shared responsibility
between the 2 of you, is encryption.
So you can do encryption. AWS can do encryption.
For you, you can encrypt your clients' data.
You can make sure that where you store
all your clients' data, that it is encrypted.
AWS, when you basically, you go in into the console
and click a button saying, please encrypt this volume.
When you click that, you are doing the encryption
on your side. AWS actually has to follow through
and make sure that that is encrypted.
So that's why encryption is a shared responsibility.
So keep all this in mind going into the exam.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.
