Okay, hello cloud gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture,
we're going to look at the four different key components
that you need to learn in order to pass your exam.
And then we'll also have a look at the exam blueprints.
So to make the exam easier,
we basically split things up into four key or core services.
So compute, storage, databases, and networking.
And when we go into the exam guide,
you'll find that there's a lot of services
that you need to know,
but most of these services can be shoehorned
or pigeonholed into one of these four core services.
So compute, storage, databases, and networking.
And so long as you have a good understanding
of these four core topics,
then you will definitely be able to pass your exam.
And we'll start with compute.
So essentially compute,
you wouldn't be able to build an application
without compute power.
So you're going to need something to crunch the data.
And typically we think of compute
as servers or virtual machines.
It can also be things like serverless, things like Lambda,
which we're going to look at in a lot more detail.
But compute is just the way that we process our information.
So some key services in compute
that we're going to cover off in this course is EC2,
which are essentially just virtual machines.
Lambda, which is a way of doing it serverlessly.
So there are no virtual machines.
All you worry about is your code.
We have Elastic Beanstalk, which is a provisioning engine.
So this is a way of basically automating the deployment
of your applications within AWS.
So you don't need to know a lot about AWS
to use Elastic Beanstalk.
Essentially you just throw your code at it
and it will basically grow out the web servers,
load balances, et cetera that you need.
And those are the key compute services
for the Solutions Architect - Associate exam.
Once we've computed our data,
we need somewhere to store.
So storage.
So think of storage as a giant disk in the cloud.
It's a safe place to leave your information.
And one of the key services,
in fact, one of the very first services with AWS
is our simple storage service
which is sometimes,
well, it's always abbreviated to S3.
You also have Elastic Block Store.
This is basically a virtual hard disk
that we attach to our virtual machines.
I'm gonna learn a lot more about that.
We have Elastic File Service,
which is a way of storing our files centrally.
We then have FSx and we have storage gateway.
And we're gonna cover all this off in a lot more detail
as we go throughout the course.
So moving on to the next key technology
you need to understand going
into your exam are databases.
And the easiest way to think of a database
is simply a spreadsheet.
It's a way of storing information.
It's a reliable way to store and retrieve information.
And there are various different services
that come under databases that we're going to cover off.
First is relational database service or RDS.
We then have DynamoDB, which is a non-relational database
and we'll cover off what the differences
are in the database section.
And we then have a Redshift,
which is basically a database, a warehousing technology.
Moving on from databases,
we're going to learn about networking.
Networking is just a way for our compute storage
and databases to communicate with each other
and even a place for them to live in.
And this is where networking comes in.
So we're gonna learn about VPCs,
and VPCs of basically virtual data centers in the cloud.
This is where all our resources are going to live.
So our compute, our storage, our databases, et cetera.
Then have Direct Connect.
Direct Connect is a way
of directly connecting your headquarters
or your on-premise data centers to AWS,
and we're gonna learn about that in more detail.
Route 53 is a way of doing a DNS.
So it's a way of registering domain names
and then pointing them at our web servers, for example.
We have API gateway.
This is basically a serverless way
of replacing your web servers.
We're gonna learn a lot more about that.
And then we have AWS Global Accelerator
and this is a way of accelerating your audiences
towards your applications within AWS.
So that is networking.
So the next thing we're gonna do is go over
and have a quick look at the exam guide,
but I don't want it to freak you out at this early stage.
The exam guide is extremely complicated
with a whole bunch of services
that are either in scope or outer scope.
Don't let it worry you.
This course will cover everything you need to know
in order to pass the exam.
So in order to find the exam guide, just go over to Google
and type in AWS Solutions Architect - Associate exam guide.
And I'm sure you'll be able to find it on AWS's website.
So this is what the exam guide looks like.
It's 17 pages long.
It's going to tell you
that there's a different response types.
You've got multiple choice or multiple responses,
and there's 65 questions in the exam.
Interestingly, only 50 questions affect your score.
There's 15 unscored questions that do not affect your score.
And you don't know whether or not the question you're doing
is a scored or unscored one.
So it's a bit of a lottery.
But for that reason, don't let a question freak you out.
Or if you feel like you're getting answers wrong,
chances are you're probably getting them wrong
on the unscored ones
'cause these are new questions that they're rolling out.
So if we scroll down,
we'll be able to see the four different domains.
So we've got Design Secure Architectures,
Design Resilient Architectures,
Design High-Performing Architectures,
and Design Cost-Optimized Architectures.
And each domain will basically give you a breakdown
of different tasks statements.
So we've got task statement one,
design secure access to AWS resources.
And then you need knowledge of these things
and you need skills in these things.
Task statement two,
design secure workloads and applications.
You need knowledge of and skills in.
And you scroll down,
it's quite long and quite tedious to be honest.
But if we go down all the way to the bottom
past our different domains, you'll be able to see down here
in the appendix sections which key tools, technologies,
and concepts might be covered in the exam.
And remember, we started this lectures talking about
compute databases, networking and storage.
And those are really the key services.
Now you've got all these other things like high performance.
High performance can be a combination of things
like compute databases, networking and storage, et cetera.
Same with security, same with resiliency.
So that's the way we break it down just to make it easy
across the four different technological platforms.
And then down here you'll be able to see
that there's a whole bunch of AWS services and features
that you're going to need to know.
So don't let this freak you out at this early stage.
We will cover all of this in the appropriate levels.
So for some of them, for example,
it will be very, very high level that you need to know.
For example, AWS Elastic Transcoder.
You just literally need to know what it does.
You don't need to know much about it.
But for things like EC2, which is a compute service,
you will need to know that a lot more in detail.
So that's what this course does.
It makes it a lot easier for you.
You'll be able to learn the specific technologies in detail
that you need to know in order to pass the exam.
You can see there's a lot of things that are in scope
and then there's a lot of things that are out of scope.
So have a read through the exam blueprint,
but don't let it freak you out or anything.
We will cover everything off in this course
in order for you to pass your exams.
So the key services to know for the exams are compute,
which consists of EC2, Lambda, and Elastic Beanstalk;
storage, which consists of S3, EBS, EFS, FSx,
and storage gateway;
databases, we're gonna cover off RDS, DynamoDB and Redshift;
and networking, we're gonna cover off VPCs, Direct Connect,
Route 53, API gateway, and AWS Global Accelerator.
So this will be throughout the entire course.
The first thing, first technology we're gonna cover off
is identity access management.
And this is essential to know
because it's how you create users and groups
and grant access to people to use AWS.
Once we've learned that, we're gonna go into storage.
So we're gonna start with storage
and we're going to start with S3.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.