Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're just going to briefly look
at the Well-Architected Framework.
So we're going to discuss whitepapers first,
and then we'll go on to the pillars
of the Well-Architected Framework.
So you can get whitepapers from the following address.
Just go to aws.amazon.com/whitepapers
and there's literally hundreds of whitepapers available.
So this is the whitepaper website.
You can see in here we've got 427 whitepapers currently.
Don't worry, you don't need to read every whitepaper
in order to pass the exam.
In here, you've got the methodology
and you can actually click
on the Well-Architected Framework,
and that will load up 13 different whitepapers
that will talk about it.
The whitepaper you probably wanna start with
is the AWS Well-Architected Framework Overview.
And then the Well-Architected Framework consists
of six different pillars that we're going to cover off
in a second.
Each pillar has its own whitepaper.
Now, going into your exam,
you really only need to read this.
I wouldn't read this just yet
because you won't understand what any
of the technologies are
'cause you haven't gone through the course,
you haven't learned what EC2 is,
you haven't learned what Direct Connect is
or Storage Gateway, et cetera, et cetera.
So I would leave reading this
until the very end of the course
but I would definitely 100% read this whitepaper
before going into your exam
because the exam is really structured
around the Well-Architected Framework.
If you want to be a solutions architect, well,
of course, you wanna architect things well
and this is the go-to whitepaper
in terms of architecting things well on the AWS platform.
So like I said, the most important whitepaper
for the exam is the Well-Architected Framework
and you can get to it
by visiting that website we just looked at.
So let's have a look
at the six pillars of the Well-Architected Framework.
And the first one is operational excellence
and this is running and monitoring systems
to deliver business value
and continually improving processes and procedures.
So continuously getting better.
We then have performance efficiency
and this is making sure you use IT
and computing resources efficiently.
We then have security
and this is protecting your information systems.
We have cost optimization,
so this is where you can avoid any unnecessary costs.
We have reliability, which is basically
we're ensuring a workload performs
its intended function correctly
and consistently when it's expected to,
so it doesn't go down and crash from having too much load.
And then finally, we have sustainability
and this is minimizing the environmental impacts
of running cloud workloads.
Now, I wouldn't go ahead
and read this Well-Architected Framework just yet.
I would only do it the night before your exam.
The reason is is it's quite technical.
There's a whole bunch of technologies in there
that you won't understand at this stage
that you are going to learn
while doing this course, but it's well worth having a read
or a skim through the night before your exam.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.