Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're just going to cover off everything
that we've just learned in section two.
So, let's start with the building blocks of AWS.
What are our three tips for the AWS building blocks?
Well, we learned what a region is.
A region is a physical location in the world
that consists of two or more availability zones.
We then have an availability zone,
which is one or more discreet data centers,
each with redundant power, networking, and connectivity,
which is housed in separate facilities.
And then we learn about edge locations
and edge locations at endpoints for AWS
that are used for caching content.
Typically, this consists of CloudFront,
which is Amazon's content delivery network.
And there's going to always be more
edge locations than there are regions.
Edge locations are basically closer to your user.
A region is basically just makes up
a whole bunch of different availability zones.
You always have a minimum
of two availability zones in a region.
Next, we're going to move on
to the shared responsibility model.
So, who owns what in the cloud?
You get a scenario based question
talking about the shared responsibility model.
I just need you to ask yourself,
can you do this yourself in the AWS Management console?
If yes, then you are likely responsible.
So things like security groups, creating users,
patching your EC2 operating system,
so patching your virtual machines with security patches,
patching your databases
that you are running on EC2, et cetera.
If you can't do this stuff in the console,
then AWS is most likely responsible for it.
So this could be things like management of the data centers,
preventing people from going
into the data centers and walking around.
It could be the installation of security cameras.
It could be the actual cabling within the data centers,
connecting up your servers to your storage, for example.
It could be things like patching RDS
or operating systems that you can't actually touch.
Could be the operating systems that run Lambda, for example.
If you can't do this yourself,
then most likely AWS is going to be responsible.
And then encryption is a shared responsibility,
so it's a shared between you and AWS.
So we had a look at the exam blueprint
and you saw a whole bunch of services
that were either in scope or out of scope,
but because there is so many,
the easiest way to divide them up
is into four different components.
And those are compute, storage, networking, and databases.
And the key services within compute
are EC2, Lambda, and Elastic Beanstalk.
Storage, we're going to learn about S3, EBS,
EFS, FSx, and Storage Gateway.
Databases, we're gonna learn about
RDS, DynamoDB and Redshift.
And networking, we're going to learn about
VPCs, Direct Connect, Route 53,
API Gateway, and AWS Global Accelerator.
And don't worry if all of this
just sounds like gibberish to you.
At the end of this course,
you'll understand what each service is intimately
and you'll be able to pass your exam
hopefully on the first go.
So we're gonna cover off
all these services in the course as we move on.
And then finally, before you go and sit your exam,
remember to read the whitepaper.
This is the Well-Architected Framework whitepaper.
I would not read the white paper just yet.
The reason is, is you don't know half the services just yet.
However, you should definitely read
the Well-Architected Framework whitepaper
when you finish this course
and you're about to take the exam.
So that is it for this section.
Let's move on to section three
where we're going to learn about identity access management,
which is a way of creating users and granting permissions
to use the AWS consoles.
So if you've got the time,
please join me in the next section.
Thank you.