Okay, hello cloud gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look
at the building blocks of AWS.
So we're gonna look
at things like availability zones and regions.
So just what we're gonna look at in this lesson.
We're gonna start with the AWS global infrastructure.
We'll then explore what availability zones are,
what data centers are, what regions are,
what edge locations are.
And then we're gonna go in and have a look
at the AWS Management Console as it looks today.
So let's start with the AWS global infrastructure.
And the global infrastructure
is split between regions and availability zones.
And at the time of recording,
there's 31 regions and 99 availability zones.
Now, this will change all the time.
You'll never be tested on how many regions
or availability zones there are in the exams.
What you will be tested on
is the differences between regions and availability zones.
So it's really important to understand the difference.
So what is a region?
Let's start with that because it's probably the simplest.
A region is simply a location.
So it could be London,
it could be Cape Town, it could be Sydney,
it could be Northern Virginia, et cetera.
It's a physical location.
So you might then be wondering,
well, what's an availability zone?
Well, think of an availability zone as a data center.
Now, if you haven't worked in tech before,
if you've never been to a data center,
you might be wondering what a data center is.
Well, a data center is simply a building
that's filled with servers.
That's all it is.
It's a building with rows and rows and rows of servers.
They're all inside data halls.
And you have multiple data halls per data center
depending on the data center architecture.
Now, an availability zone
may be several different data centers,
but because they're close together,
they'll be within a certain mile radius between each one.
They'll be counted as one availability zone.
So it doesn't necessarily mean it's just one data center.
It's always going to be multiple data centers,
but they will be close enough together
to be grouped into one availability zone.
So what's a region?
Well, we covered it off,
but a region is just a geographical area,
and each region consists of two or more availability zones.
So in this region we've got three availability zones:
we've got availability zone A, availability zone B,
availability zone C, et cetera, et cetera.
So if you Google regions and availability zones with AWS,
you'll get the following landing page.
And you can see here we've got
all the different regions inside North America.
And you can click up here
and see it inside South America, Europe and the Middle East
and Asia Pacific.
So there are regions and availability zones everywhere.
So if we go over to North America, we can scroll down here
and we can see that US-EAST-1 is Northern Virginia.
So this has six availability zones in it
and it was launched in 2006.
And we can scroll down
and have a read about our availability zones.
And you'll see here right at the end
it says availability zones are physically separated
by a meaningful distance, many kilometers,
from any other availability zone,
although all are within 100 kilometers
or 60 miles of each other.
So every availability zone,
so take for example
in here we've got six availability zones,
they'll all be within 60 miles
or 100 kilometers of each other
because they're in the Northern Virginia region.
So that's how availability zones work.
And you'll notice here we've got edge locations.
And you'll notice our edge locations
we've got many more than we do have regions.
And you can actually see the edge locations
listed here for North America.
So what are edge locations?
Well, an edge location are basically just endpoints for AWS
that are used for caching content.
And typically this consists of things like CloudFront,
which is Amazon's content delivery network
which we're going to learn about
a little bit later on in the course.
Essentially, all you need to know going into your exam
is that there are many more edge locations
than there are regions.
And currently there are over 215 edge locations
around the world.
So that's all an edge location is.
So these are all the different service types
that sit on top of the AWS global infrastructure.
And I'm not gonna read them all out,
but there's an awful lot.
And these are the service types.
So these are actually just the groups.
Underneath each of these service types
you have individual services.
So it can get a little bit overwhelming.
So what we'll do is we'll have a look
at the Amazon Management Console when I first started.
So I first started learning AWS in about 2014
is when I started really looking at it.
And this is what it looked like in 2014.
And it was very simple.
So we had compute services,
storage and content delivery services, database services,
networking services, et cetera, et cetera.
And under compute, we only had two services.
We had EC2 and Lambda.
Or under storage, content, and delivery,
we just had four services.
So we had S3, Storage Gateway, Glacier, and CloudFront.
Let's have a look
at what the AWS Management Console looks like today.
So this is what the AWS Console looks like today.
And if I click up here and I go to Services,
you can see all the different services down here.
If I click on Compute,
you're gonna see there's a lot more than just two.
So we've got AWS App Runner, Batch, EC2,
EC2 Image Builder, Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, Lightsail,
AWS Outposts, Serverless Application Repository,
and AWS SimSpace Weaver.
And I can't even say it all in one breath.
And there'll always be more and more services
added to the console.
The great thing is about this course
is you don't need to know every service at all
in order to pass the exam.
We will just be focusing
on the core services that you need to know
to pass the Certified Solutions Architect Associate Exam.
Now I'm a huge SpaceX fan.
This is a real picture.
This is a picture
of Elon Musk's Roadster orbiting the Earth.
It was launched by the Falcon Heavy.
I was actually lucky enough
to be at that launch with my son.
And I want you to look at the center console of the Roadster
and it says, don't panic.
And that is from "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy",
Douglas Adams' famous book.
So when you are looking at the AWS Console
and you saw all those different services,
please don't panic.
You only need to know a few of those services
to pass your exam.
You certainly don't need to know
all of those services in depth.
To be honest,
there's quite a few services that are there
that I don't even know what they do.
They're just names to me.
So you'll never know all services inside out with AWS.
It's just too vast.
But if we have a look at the different service types
that you need to know in order to pass your exam,
it's going to be these ones.
So we'll start from the bottom.
Compute is a massive area
and we will cover that in a lot of detail.
Same with storage and databases.
They are the bread and butter
of the Certified Solutions Architect Associate Exam.
You also need to know migration and transfer,
network and content delivery,
a little bit of management and governance, analytics,
security, identity, and compliance,
which is the very first service
we're going to cover off in the next section.
We then have application integration,
AWS cost management, and containers.
So you really just need to know
these different service types in order to pass your exam.
You don't need to know things like quantum technologies
or satellite or blockchain or robotics.
That's just not covered
in the Solutions Architect Associate Exam.
So please don't panic.
We're gonna make it super easy.
We're gonna cover each service type individually
and then we're going to drill down
into each individual service in depth
and you'll learn everything that you need to know
in order to pass your exam.
So at the end of every lecture,
we're going to have our exam tips
and we're just going to reinforce what you've learned
in the end of each lecture.
So in this lecture,
let's have a look at what we learned about.
So we learnt that a region
is a physical location in the world
that consists of two or more availability zones.
An availability zone is one or more discrete data centers,
each with redundant power, networking, and connectivity
which can sometimes be housed in separate facilities.
And then we have our edge locations
which are endpoints for AWS
that are used for caching content.
And typically this consists of CloudFront,
which is Amazon's content delivery network.
And we will cover that off in more detail
as we go on for the rest of the course.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
You've done really well.
Congratulations on passing your first lecture.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.